Another one is a policeman himself. He may be
involved in some personal problems that would
affect his performance on the job. He might have a
toothache. He might have a bellyache.
Wife might have pussed at him. He might not have got
no sleep last night. Maybe he's got a girlfriend
about two weeks late. he might have something of
his mind. To give you an example,
there was an old boy that I started with.
And I made sergeant before he did. Later on, he was
made sergeant and given me to train. We'd been
friends from the time we met.
He developed a little gallbladder problem and
went to the hospital to have a minor operation.
Doctor got in there. Turns out it was terminal
cancer. He had less than 90 days to live. I went by
the hospital every day to see him. Some days he was
awake, some days he wasn't. Some days we talked,
some days we didn't.
Until he died.
The day he died was about 8, 3 in the
morning. Wack was there.
Her mother and dad were there. He didn't have a
mother and dad, he didn't know. And, uh, got things
pretty well settled down. I got his wife in the car
and took her home.
Then I got a call from one of the men that he needed a
supervisor.
We get out there. or I get out there and what he
needed a supervisor for was that he had two grown
men in a neighborhood there with new houses that
had just been recently finished
and they were arguing or the argument was over the
location of a fence line in the back of the two
houses separated them out in between. One of them
said it was here, the other one said it was there,
which was six inches difference. The officer had
explained to him that that was not a police
problem, that was a civil problem, and
that there wasn't anything he could do about it,
and he'd talk to the other state people about it.
Survey people, title people, whatever.
And they were not satisfied with his decision
and insisted that he call the supervisor. I
listened to all this, and I had
this other problem on my mind. I told them at the
time that they had to explain what the problem was,
and this officer explained to you what the answer
to the problem is. Now, you goddamn son of a bitch,
I've been in the hospital for the last 90 days with a
friend that died this morning of cancer, and you
called me over here to ask me the same thing? Yes, I
went through with it, in language and in accents.
Shit, I've been criticized for it in what form? As
it was, there was no complaint made. There was no
investigation made of it. A policeman can get
involved, yeah. And he can blow up a caseload.
He's supposed to, but they're imperfect. You just
saw my last question. Do you think the police, I
mean, that the public expects the police to be
perfect or not? Sure. They've got the right to
expect it.
But they're not gonna get it. Never will. It can't
be done.
Just like you expect A&M to win every football
game. But we can't do it. Or we expect the Dallas
Cowboys to. Every spring season we expect
Detective Rogers to be playing in the World
Series. They ain't gonna make it. We expect
perfection out of every policeman. You can't
expect anything less.
But realistically, you're never going to get it.
Just like one of the, to give you a sense of what I
mean, one of the schools that I went to, the subject
was investigation of traffic accidents, how to
determine what happened and who was at fault. and
what could have been done to correct it that wasn't
done or something like this. The school was put on
by Northwestern University out of Illinois, out
of Chicago, the top accident investigation
school in the country.
In their teaching, they teach theoretically the
perfect way to investigate an accident. And one of
them was telling me, one of the instructors there,
he spent three weeks on one accident.
We've got officers out here working 10 and 12
accidents a day. We don't have that kind of time.
But they've got to teach you the theoretically
perfect way to do something. Then you adapt it to
your own situation. But you've got the benefit of
the training. to do it that way. You shortcut
what's required. The same with your policeman.
You expect perfection, but you're going to get
shortcuts. Same
question. 1968, Rich Nixon ran for president, a
law and order platform, a big deal in the United
States. law and order this and law and order that.
After he was elected, millions and millions of
dollars went to local law enforcement. His what?
Millions and millions of dollars went out to local
law enforcement. What was an effect here? Did
y'all get new gear? Was there any noticeable
effect of his campaign on increasing law and
order? How did the money go out? It went directly to
local departments. If it's $50 for you and $100 for
you, I never heard of it. OK. Now, there were LEAAs
and different groups of this type, or federal
grants. Numerous of those, and they involved
paperwork and justification and youth programs
and this kind of stuff. But just to be handed some
money, I never heard of that. It might have been.
OK. um another political question during the time
in the police force there were seven presidents
with any uh that's not directly tied at local law
enforcement is any any one president sitting out
of his administration being the most favorable to
law enforcement
i don't believe really
The president himself
could affect law enforcement to an appreciable
degree. You've got your legislative houses that
pass the law, the courts that rule on them, the laws
that have been in existence for years,
the Supreme Court. which, with the effect of some
of the decisions, creates new laws,
there would be very little noticeable effect from
the president or the local law enforcement, I
believe. I don't know that one's been better or
worse.
I guess, lastly, is there anything you'd like to
add to anything that's been said or anything I
didn't mention you think?
Is it important? No. The courts right now are one of
the biggest
problem areas, I believe, of the judicial system
to complete.
their
way of handling cases, the way they're requiring
cases to be handled,
the decisions of the appeal courts, and some of the
decisions of the Supreme Court. Hopefully,
somewhere along the line, this will change to the
rights of society as opposed to the rights of the
accused.
If you don't have anything else to add, I guess that
wraps it up. Okay. I'll go get my coffee.